Overview:

This is intended to be a collection of tools for parsing and analyzing log
files from UAVs and other autonomous or semi-autonomous devices. The tools
should be standalone and appropriate for forensic or other analysis related
to legal issues. In other words, it is expected that the tools be well 
designed, developed, and available for review and use by all interested
parties. Further, the tools are designed to run on a local system so as to
avoid placing potential evidence in an uncontrolled cloud environment.

These tools are an adjunct to an ongoing series of presentations I and
others are doing on UAV forensics. Please contact me for a copy of the
latest version of the presentation.

Tools:

The first tool in the collection is DatCon. This is a port of Rowland
Johnson's excellent Java implementation. I arranged to have it ported 
because I am far more adept with Python and wanted something that I could
extend to support newer file formats.

The amount of superb work that Rowland did to create DatCon is amazing.

DatCon converts the a .DAT file from a DJI Phantom 3 or Inspire1 into a .csv
file that can be used for further analysis.

Additional modules required:

* You also need the `bitstring` module to run this tool.
* For Linux users there is an install script. Run ./Linux-Install.sh for quick setup. 

Retrieving the DAT file:

The instructions for doing so are on the original site:

	https://datfile.net/retrieve.html

Retrieving a .DAT from the P3 or Inspire

Windows PC
1. Go to the DJI GO App and connect to the P3 or Inspire
2. MC Settings --> select Advanced Settings Advanced Settings --> Enter flight data mode
3. wait until you get a dialog telling you that the P3 or Inspire is in flight data mode.
4. Connect a USB cable from the USB plug in the nose of the P3 or Inspire to your computer. This is not the USB connector on the side of the camera. Your P3 or Inspire should have come with the required USB cable
5. The data drive should mount and be available.
6. Use the date on the FLYXXX.DAT files to pick the one you want and copy it to your computer

Mac OSX

Replace step 5 above with one of the following:
Using Disk Utility, select the SD card and create a Disk Image of the entire
Phantom SD card saving it to the hard drive. To do this, select the SD Card,
then File>New Image>Image from Folder. Save the file to desktop. 

After it has completed open the Disk Image as any other folder and save the
enclosed .DAT files to a new folder for viewing. 

Depending on how many .DAT files (flights) there are, it can take a long time
to create the rather sizable disk image of the entire SD card. (The Phantom
battery can often get run down in the process. Start with the battery at least
50% charged).

Use the Disk Utility app as described here (Courtesy of Greq Dominguez)
Picking the right .DAT

The .DAT for a flight starts recording when the battery is turned on and ends
recording when the battery is turned off or removed. The .DAT will also stop
recording if the AC is put into MC Data Mode by the Go App. Thus, an "extra"
.DAT file is created when you are attempting to retrieve the .DAT you want.

Each .DAT has a DateTime and usually this can be used to determine the desired
.DAT file. However, the DateTime comes from the RC. If the battery is turned on
while the RC is not powered up the DateTime is set to the DateTime of the last
.DAT. The result is two .DAT files with the same DateTime. Also, if the .DAT
reaches a size around 300 MBytes the AC will end the .DAT and start a new .DAT.
This new .DAT will have the same DateTime as the first .DAT.

The size of the .DAT can be used to estimate the length of the time the battery
was on. The ratio is .19 MBytes/second. Be aware that the battery will be on
longer than the length of the flight.

Another method of determining if you have the right .DAT is to use DatCon to
generate a .kml file that can be viewed with Google Earth.

